KOGITO-7313 Added "Mocking OpenAPI services with WireMock" guide (#47)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/testing-and-troubleshooting/mocking-opnapi-services-with-wiremock.adoc

Mocking OpenAPI services with WireMock
======================================
// Metadata:
:description: Mocking OpenAPI services with WireMock
:keywords: kogito, workflow, quarkus, serverless, quarkus-cli, test, wiremock, openapi
// links:
:wiremock_url: https://wiremock.org/docs/
:quarkus_test_resource_url: https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started-testing#quarkus-test-resource
// Referenced documentation pages.
:getting-familiar-with-our-tooling: xref:getting-started/getting-familiar-with-our-tooling.adoc
:create-your-first-workflow-service: xref:getting-started/create-your-first-workflow-service.adoc
:orchestration-of-openapi-based-services: xref:service-orchestration/orchestration-of-openapi-based-services.adoc

> This document describes how to mock OpenAPI services using WireMock. The testing procedure in this document is based on the `serverless-workflow-examples/serverless-workflow-service-calls-quarkus` example application. You can access this example application in link:{kogito_examples_url}[Kogito Examples] GitHub repository.

Reviewer: I think it's worth adding a link to the example directly rather than the main repo.

    }

    private void configureWiremockServer() {
        wireMockServer = new WireMockServer(WireMockConfiguration.wireMockConfig().dynamicPort());
        wireMockServer.start();

        ObjectMapper objectMapper = new ObjectMapper();
        JsonNode greecePayload;
        try {
            greecePayload = objectMapper.readTree(getClass().getResourceAsStream("/country_mock.json"));
        } catch (IOException e) {
            throw new UncheckedIOException(e);
        }
        wireMockServer.stubFor(get(urlEqualTo("/rest/v2/name/Greece"))
                                       .willReturn(aResponse()
                                                           .withStatus(200)
                                                           .withHeader("Content-Type", "application/json")
                                                           .withJsonBody(greecePayload)));
    }

    @Override
    public void stop() { <3>
        if (wireMockServer != null) {
            wireMockServer.stop();
        }
    }
}
----
<1> Start the test resource. This method is called once before all tests.

> <2> Returns a map of environment variables that will be set in the test environment. In this case, it sets the `quarkus.rest-client.restcountries_json.url` environment variable to the base URL of the WireMock server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Returns a map of application properties that will be set in the test environment. In this case, it sets the `quarkus.rest-client.restcountries_json.url` property to the base URL of the WireMock server.
```

You can link the endpoint configuration guide here: https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-docs/blob/main/serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/service-orchestration/configuring-openapi-services-endpoints.adoc

Mocking OpenAPI services with WireMock
======================================
// Metadata:
:description: Mocking OpenAPI services with WireMock
:keywords: kogito, workflow, quarkus, serverless, quarkus-cli, test, wiremock, openapi
// links:
:wiremock_url: https://wiremock.org/docs/

> :kogito_examples_url: https://github.com/kiegroup/kogito-examples.git

Reviewer 2: this one is already on the antora.yaml

:quarkus_test_resource_url: https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started-testing#quarkus-test-resource
// Referenced documentation pages.

> :getting-familiar-with-our-tooling: xref:getting-started/getting-familiar-with-our-tooling.adoc

Reviewer 2: nice approach :)

:create-your-first-workflow-service: xref:getting-started/create-your-first-workflow-service.adoc
:orchestration-of-openapi-based-services: xref:service-orchestration/orchestration-of-openapi-based-services.adoc

This document describes how to mock OpenAPI services using WireMock. The testing procedure in this document is based on the `serverless-workflow-examples/serverless-workflow-service-calls-quarkus` example application. You can access this example application in link:{kogito_examples_url}[Kogito Examples] GitHub repository.

== Prerequisites

The examples in this document assumes that you have the following prerequisites:

* You have installed the Kogito tooling.

+
--

> For more information about the tooling, see {getting-familiar-with-our-tooling}[Using Serverless Workflow tooling].

Reviewer 2: maybe just add it as a link on Kogito tooling?

--

* You have created a Serverless Workflow project that orchestrates OpenAPI services.

+
--
For more information about creating a Serverless Workflow project, see {create-your-first-workflow-service}[Creating your first Serverless Workflow service].
--

+
--

> For more information about orchestrating OpenAPI services, see {orchestration-of-openapi-based-services}[Orchestrating the OpenAPI services].

Reviewer 2: same for these both "for more information"

--

== About WireMock

> WireMock is an open source API mocking for unit, integration and performance testing. You can use it to isolate your tests from 3rd party APIs and prototype APIs that still don't exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WireMock is an open source Mocking API for unit, integration and performance tests. You can use it to isolate your tests from 3rd party APIs and prototype APIs that still don't exist.
```

> For more information about WireMock, see the {wiremock_url}[WireMock documentation].

Reviewer 2: maybe add the link on the beginning of the previous paragraph.

== Adding a mocked OpenAPI service to your tests

The following procedure describes how to add WireMock to your Serverless Workflow application:

.Procedure

. Add the WireMock dependency to your `pom.xml` file.

+
--
.WireMock dependency
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.github.tomakehurst</groupId>
    <artifactId>wiremock-jre8</artifactId>
    <version>{wiremock.version}</version>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

[NOTE]
====

> Replace `{wiremock.version}` with the version of WireMock you want to use.

Reviewer 2: is there any version recommended to use with Kogito and Quarkus?

Reviewer: Not really. Their API is pretty much stable: https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.github.tomakehurst/wiremock

2 years, no updates.

====
--

. Choose when you want to start your WireMock server. There are two options:

> * Start WireMock server as a `QuarkusTestResource`. This means that your WireMock server will be started once before all your tests and stopped after all your tests. This is the option that fits most cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Start WireMock server as a `QuarkusTestResource`. This means that your WireMock server will be started once before to run any test and will be stopped once the tests finishes. This is the option that fits most use cases.
```

<3> Starts the WireMock server.
--

. Mock the endpoints.

+
--
.Mocking endpoints example
[source,java]
----
ObjectMapper objectMapper = new ObjectMapper();
JsonNode greecePayload = objectMapper.readTree(getClass().getResourceAsStream("/country_mock.json")); <1>

wireMockServer.stubFor(WireMock.get(WireMock.urlEqualTo("/rest/v2/name/Greece")) <2>
                               .willReturn(WireMock.aResponse() <3>
                                                   .withStatus(200) <4>
                                                   .withHeader("Content-Type", "application/json") <5>
                                                   .withJsonBody(greecePayload))); <6>
----
<1> Creates the JSON payload that will be returned by the WireMock server. Alternatively, you can use the `ResponseDefinitionBuilder#withBody` method to define a `String` or a `byte[]` as the response body.
<2> Defines a stub for the `/rest/v2/name/Greece` endpoint.
<3> Defines the response for the stub.
<4> Defines the response status.
<5> Defines the response headers.
<6> Defines the response body.
--

. Stop the WireMock server.

+
--
.Stopping a WireMock server example
[source,java]
----

> wireMockServer.stop();

Reviewer 2: Maybe it is better to add where exactly and how to call the close method, maybe on the method annotated with @AfterAallw?

Author: This is done in the sections below.

        wireMockServer.start();

        ObjectMapper objectMapper = new ObjectMapper();
        JsonNode greecePayload = objectMapper.readTree(CountryServiceWorkflowTest.class.getResourceAsStream("/country_mock_feature_a.json"));
        wireMockServer.stubFor(get(urlEqualTo("/rest/v2/name/Greece"))
                                       .willReturn(aResponse()
                                                           .withStatus(200)
                                                           .withHeader("Content-Type", "application/json")
                                                           .withJsonBody(greecePayload)));

        return wireMockServer;
    }

    private static WireMockServer startWiremockServerForFeatureB() {
        WireMockServer wireMockServer = new WireMockServer(WireMockConfiguration.wireMockConfig().dynamicPort());
        wireMockServer.start();

        wireMockServer.stubFor(get(urlEqualTo("/rest/v2/name/Greece"))
                                       .willReturn(aResponse().withStatus(404)));

        return wireMockServer;
    }
}
----
--

== Testing your Serverless Workflow application

> To test your Serverless Workflow application, you can follow the instructions in the xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/basic-integration-tests-with-restassured.adoc[Basic Integration Test with RestAssured] guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test your Serverless Workflow application, you can follow the instructions in the xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/basic-integration-tests-with-restassured.adoc[Basic Integration Test with RestAssured] guide.

include::../../pages/_common-content/report-issue.adoc[]
```
